On the white pages of a Diary, a pen was moving ahead with a rustling noise:

‘...The grey desert of Sinkiang. The Tian Shan Mountains was standing far to the northern horizon like a black line. I just looked around without rhyme or reason. There was no movement. As if, the motion of our life had been paralysed. Few days ago, we, the five thousand Muslims took shelter in our racial-brothers’ house in this very distant oasis leaving our age-old homeland behind. The blood-desirous shiny bayonets and the molten lead of the rifles of the oppressors snatched away many of our brothers and sisters’ life. There is no more tears in anyone’s eye. The flow of tears was dried up.

Coming to the inaccessible desert-surrounded oasis, some of us had a small sigh of relief; but very soon, their mistake was demolished. One day after getting up from bed, I heard that the Pharaoh’s army of this country was also moving towards this direction. My father cried, “We have fallen off from the mouth of the tiger to the hand of the butcher. Today Satan will not let us stay even in a small piece of our homeland, Turkistan.” I understood that father’s endurance was going to be exhausted.

The arrangement for my father’s departure was started. The dry air of the desert-land became weighty by the tears of the women and children. This time not only we, but also forty-five thousand Muslim men and women’s refugee-procession of the oasis and nearby combined with us.

My four-aged brother, Yusuf hugged me and said, “Where shall we go this time, brother! If we go home, those men will kill us again!” I assured him of safety, “No, brother. We are not going back to home.”

I could not say where we were going. Where would we go? - Tajikistan or Uzbekistan. Those were another Sin kiang. At last everyone looked into the West with a chest of deep hope. The name of India was pronounced- Muhammad bin Kashim’s India, Mahmud, Babur, Isa khan, Tipu, Titumir’s India.

The horizon-extending procession of uprooted people was moving ahead over the white sand of the desert. The memory involvement of thousand century’s homeland, Sin kiang was left behind. Why did such happen? What had we done? We only wanted to live independently. This desire for men is everlasting. For doing sin by becoming a Muslim, won’t we have this right?

Several weeks were passed. Slowly we were moving towards Tibet. One day, suddenly some martial air craft were flown over our head in a very lower position. Panic spread among the company. Didn’t they give up following us yet, then?

The quiet and silent night of the desert, the continuous sound of blowing air is simply drawing a wave in the field of calm and quietness. The assembly of millions of stars are on the top. Perhaps, none of the tired travellers of the company was awaked. Suddenly a terrific noise of some jet engine was heard from the northern horizon. Then boom! Boom! Boom... ...

The fast asleep-dead of the night was broken into pieces with outcry, hurry-scurry and scream. I was awoken. I sat down on my bed. As if, I were a dumb. Hearing my father’s cry, I rushed out. My eyes were not believed by me on the day. How horrible the scene was! My father’s tent was burning. My father was pulling Yusuf tremulously. Yusuf's rear side from the waist was lost; his body had become a coal. Only an indistinct cry was come out from my mouth... ...

When my sense returned, the day-time was much. When my eyes fell on my father, I saw that he was calling me in a very feeble voice. As soon as I got close to him, he said, “Musa, lead the company from here as soon as possible. Remind...”

I obstructed him and said, “What are you talking about, father? You will be all right.” My father smiled sadly and said, “If His call comes, can anybody return that call without responding, Musa?”

Stopping a few moments, he spoke again, “Musa, Yusuf is lost; don’t be sad. You will find your Yusuf in every oppressed children of the world. You don’t think that you haven’t your parents, try to find your parents in every oppressed people of the world.” Father’s voice became weak. His speech came out from his mouth indistinctly, “Remind that, the bad situation is happening not only to the Muslims of Sinkiang but also to the millions of your brothers and sisters who are also being destroyed in the same way. Also remind that, it’s your duty to wipe the tears of these oppressed Muslims, it’s a duty of young generation like you to make their condition changed. Always keep the Creator’s indication and your glorious past in front of you. The day when you can raise the sword of Khalid, Tariq, Musa and Muhammad Bin Kashim in your hand again, you will find that day how hurry the help of Allah comes upon you.”

After making an unsuccessful attempt to wipe my tears with his weak numbed hand, my father said, “Musa, tear is not for the Muslims. You are that race who held flag with their legs after losing the hands, held flag with their teeth after losing the legs.” I wiped my tears and said, “I won’t cry any more, father. Pray for me - so that I won’t die like a coward in a corner of a house.”

I have looked around; the chest of the desert became black with the thousands of deformed corpse who wandered in the light and wind of the world yesterday. The pieces of hundreds of burned tents were scattered. The crying of hundreds of orphan-children for losing everything agitated all around. When I looked at my father again, his eyes were closed. His eyes would not see the earth any more. A confined emotion wanted to break my whole mind into pieces. Darkness coming from all around wanted to make my world narrow. I tried to be a strong by pressing my teeth into teeth.

I was startled feeling a soft-touch on my shoulder. I found ‘Farzana’ by looking behind. Her two bright cheeks were flowing with tears. What a boundless illusion in her tearful black eyes were! I never saw her so closely like this before. Farzana was the daughter of the chief judge in Sinkiang, Aamir Hasan.

I asked, “Farzana, you don't have any bad news, do you? She said, “I am fine. My father called you in our tent.”

The desert-sun was burning that time. I knew that, Farzana's had a small tent. I said, “Look around, Farzana, to how many people can we give the shade of the tent? Any way, something can be done here. Go back Farzana. I will meet with uncle later.”

We were moving ahead keeping our ten thousand brothers and sisters slept in the everlasting sand-bed of the desert. One day we reached to the boarder of Tibet at the time of twilight. We found that the government of Tibet sealed its boarder. We heard that to whom the soil of Sinkiang could not give shelter, they had no chance to keep their feet on the land of Tibet as well. Any petition of the tired, weary uprooted men did not worked. The dead-silence had came around the company for extreme disappointment of breaking-hope.

Where would we go this time? In the north, death was calling us beckoning its hand, in south laid the impenetrable wall of Tibetan boarder. Only a small torch of hope was lighting- Afghanistan through Kashmir. The way was very inaccessible, but there was not other way.

Our expedition towards Afghanistan through the ice-covered death like cold path of eighteen thousand feet high of the Himalayas was started. Days, months were passed. The last account of hope of men was completely gone for climbing and descending the painful mountainous-way, besides intolerable cold. Every day the touch of freezing death was coming down over the hundreds of weary men. The weak, old, soft-body female, helpless children became the main target of it. One day, we were going ahead burying Farzana’s old father in an unknown cave of the Himalayas like the others. The condition of Farzana was also growing very pathetic. She became silent like a stone after the death of her father. No changing manner could be found in her empty-voiceless glance. We were going side by side holding her one hand. After a few days it became impossible to take her by holding one hand. A terrific fever rose to Farzana. Her legs didn’t want to rise.

In the dark night of that day, perhaps everyone was slept. Farzana was moaning for the unbearable pain of fever; I was watching the scene helplessly sitting in a distance. The indistinct moan of Farzana in the endless silence of the Himalaya was bruising my entire mind like a strong wail. Going near I sat beside her head slowly. I caressed her burning-forehead slowly. Her weak hands were raised. She took my hand in the fist of her two hands. Then pressing the hands in her mouth Farzana bursted into a silence crying. While caressing her head with my hand, I said, “Don’t cry, Farzana. The distress will increase more.”

Farzana said, “Don’t try to make me mislead. I know my time has drawn nearer.” Then stopping for a while, she said, “Musa, Brother, I don't remember having done any sin in a clear mind. Can you assure me- I will find you in the world of immortal life?” I told my father I wouldn’t cry. But my two eyelids became unexpectedly heavy with tears. I said, “Only Allah knows this, Farzana. But I can say- He does not make any of the private desire of His servant incomplete.”

Farzana, as it were, closed her eyes with deep satisfaction. From her mouth indistinctly came, “Allah knows me best.” Farzana did not open her eyes nor it ever will.

When we reached to the boarder of Afghanistan after going a long way splitting the chest of the Himalaya, only eight hundred and fifty persons of us were alive from the fifty-thousand people......

The rustling voice was stopped.

The pen was stopped suddenly!

A red light of a small instrument was lighted which was in a corner of the table. And with this, a bleeping noise was floating around from the wireless-receiver. Finishing the writing, Ahmad Musa closed the diary and stood up. The man was almost six feet tall, middle-Asian traditional Turks health in the body. As if Allah created him with the ability to confront all kinds of distress and any adverse situation. The hair was cropped shortly. The two eyes were bright and sight was very sharp, very clear impression of unbending personality in the quiet-looking visage. This man was the most discussed person and the headache of the imperialistic power, the central gem of Saimum. Every oppressed people of the Muslim society from Morocco to Indonesia and North Caucasia to Tanzania reminded his name with pride and dreamt of an independent country and life. Standing up, Ahmad Musa sat near the wireless and said, “Ahmad Musa speaking!”

A voice is floating from the other side, “I’m Faruk Amin speaking.”

“What’s up?”

“Bangladesh Secret Service has given us important information. I want to come immediately.”

“Come. What about Operation 4011?”

“They have returned fifteen minutes ago. The desire for making missile-camp in Jerusalem has been settled for a long time. The missile-pedestal of Mount Gulivior has been reduced dust in a huge explosion of Dynamite. And the body of the Jew missile expert Michael Sharp is also flown with them.”

The eyes of Ahmad Musa brightened for a moment. He said, “Give the winner brothers my salaam, Faruk. And listen- there is no space of self-satisfaction for us. Our goal is very far, the path is extremely inaccessible. We will have to do hundred times greater than we have done so far in future. Well, you may come.”

Now he made a new channel by turning the wireless-pointer. He tried a few times to contact with the new address but did not succeed. Ahmad Musa stood up. His eyebrows were frowned. Pulling the telephone, He dialled a known number and said, “Shafiq, come upstairs.”

Ahmad Musa wrote onto a paper with a rustling noise:

  ‘The wireless of Hasan Tariq is unnaturally silent.
  Find where he is. You will find me in the head-quarter tomorrow at 5 am.’

Just afterwards, a blue light was lighted. Shafiq entered into the room by pushing the curtain. Ahmad Musa indicated him to sit in the front-chair. Then enhancing the letter to his hand, he said, “In the north side of the road, just the opposite side of the foreign ministry lays a house, numbered 322. Entering into the house, you will go straight to the second floor. This is his letter. Go carefully.”
